Something I just wanna
put in a section for
all the various different databases here.
So I wanted you to be a little
familiar with how these get run from
the operations perspective.
Most of you,
I'm assuming that you're a developer
writing code to access a database.
You have to remember there's also someone
on the operation side that's not writing
code or writing data to databases.
They're just keeping the servers running,
and spinning them up, and
spinning them down.
Making sure they're resilient, making sure
that they're copied and backed up and
all that kind of stuff.
You as a developer, most of time, this
should be relatively transparent process
to you shouldn't really have to know or
care how it's being run.
However, there is some good
things to keep in mind,
we're just gonna talk a second about that.
So primary, secondary is replica sets,
these are terms that you'll hear fairly
frequently in association with MongoDB.
Every replica set, which is a group
of MongoDB servers has a primary,
which is the thing that you can write to,
right?
And it has secondaries, which are the
secondary servers that are running,
basically, real time
copies of the primary.
So you'll write to the primary, and then
the primary will then flush out that data
to the secondary, so
that they're all relatively kept in sync.
The thing to keep in mind is not fully
consistent, so remember our acid, right?
A-C-I-D, it's not fully consistent,
which means that if I write to primary,
and then Mongo says, okay,
I accepted your query, it has not yet
gotten to the secondaries.
This is a term that is known
as eventually consistent,
which means it fails the C
part of the acid test.
Unless you tell this query must only
be accepted once it's been written not
only to the primary but
to all the secondaries.
And then you achieve that
see part of the the acid,
that's much slower and
usually not what you need, right?
Usually eventual consistency and when I
say eventual it's usually milliseconds,
usually not more than seconds,
probably not minutes, right?
It just depends on how overloaded your
servers are, how busy they are, blah,
all those kind of things.
But that's the point here
is that you have primaries,
you can only write to the primary,
that's a big key here.
Only the primary will accept writes,
you can read from secondaries, right?
Because the secondaries are just
eventually consistent copies
of the primary, so
it's okay to read from secondaries.
It's a good idea if that's
an acceptable trade off too,
because the secondaries don't get
as much load as the primary, right?
The primary gets a lot more load because
it's handling all of the writes.
And so a group of primary, primary and
secondaries is called the replica set.
These are all running things called
the MongoD process, the Mongo,
Damon demon,
however you prefer to pronounce that.
And yeah, that's a good thing to, but
let's talk about arbiters and elections.
So what happens if your primary goes down?
Well, if your primary goes
down MongoDB I'm not joking,
this is what is called,
is holds an election, right?
So each server, it gets a vote and
they vote on who they think
that the new primary should be.
And it does that through a bunch of
different factors like which one has
the lowest latency,
which one Is the most up-to-date it
does a bunch of stuff to decide.
This is gonna be the new primary,
what it'll do is it'll immediately
reassign that role to that new primary.
And then it becomes a new primary and then
your ops person can go around and kick
up the old server and say, okay, you're
back in the pool now as a secondary,
you can also give them priorities.
So let's say you have one
really beefy computer and
five smaller computers
are inside of your replica set.
Because your primary is gonna take a lot
more resources, so what you actually might
do is you might have two really beefy
computers inside of your replica set.
And then a bunch of smaller ones, and
then assign a higher priority to the beefy
secondary so that when the election
happens, it's gonna be that server
because it has more resources, right?
So you can kind of play
some of those games there.
Something that can happen is if you don't
have enough servers, you can have arbiters
which are basically servers that don't
actually, that are not secondaries.
All they do is vote their entire
purpose in existence is just a vote
in prime these kinds of elections.
Usually don't need those, but they do
exist and let's talk about sharding.
So let's say you have five,
let's say petabytes of data, right?
5000 terabytes of data,
you can't hold that on one server system,
we don't have storage arrays
that are that big yet.
So how would you handle that?
Well you would have multiple replica
sets and then you would shard the data.
So you'd split up whole junks
of data that would go to various
different replica sets.
And then you have a process called
Mongo s, Mongo sharding, right?
That you would write
a query to the Mongo s, and
then that would get shorted out
to one of the replica sets.
So that's what sharding is it allows you
to handle even larger amounts of data.
And then lastly, I told you all these
things, just so that hopefully you can
ignore all these, I always use a managed
cloud version again, I work for the cloud.
So I'm a bit biased in the matter, but
there is a bunch of managed versions,
we would have to worry about any of this.
All they do is like, hey,
give me a Mongo server, and
then it'll give you back a connection
string and then it handles sharding,
collections arbiters,
all that kind of stuff for you.
You just pay him you're their money and
they give you fully
scaled model of MongoDB.
So MongoDB Atlas that's from the official
people that make MongoDB that's
one of them.
Microsoft Azure, Cosmos DB,
that's the one that I work with and
there's Amazon Web Services Document DB.
I'm sure Google has their own as well
there's a bunch of these that exist out
there.
I mean they're expensive,
databases are expensive,
but it means you don't have to worry about
ops, which is worth a lot to me anyway.
It's what I mean, it's what I do if I
was gonna start a new company today,
that's would exact that's exactly what
I would reach for is a managed service.
That's the last thing I was gonna say is
you can write to like document DB and
Cosmos DB as if they were MongoDB.
They are totally compatible
with a Mongo API,
despite the fact that they're
not actually running Mongo.
What skills should we consider managing
our own database instead of using
a managed service?
It's a great question.
Here's my opinion on the matter, if you
have your own operations team at that
point, you can probably consider running
your own replicas and things like that.
But I'm not even sure if that's 100%
true even when you have your own
operations team, let me refer.
I would not consider it until
I had my own operations team,
and even when I got my
own operations team,
I would let a certified expert in
operations make that decision.
And me the developer,
I would never make that decision.
Things like Cosmos,
things like MongoDB Atlas,
this scale to enormous sizes, right?
Like these companies entire
businesses based on this, so
they're not gonna crumble under
the pressure, it's their business, right?
The problem that you're gonna have
with is it's gonna get too expensive.
So if you're running massive clusters and
doing a lot of reads and writes,
at some point] it will become cheaper for
you to not only manage your database but
also pay the team to manage the database.
And at that point, that's when you
might consider switching over.